---
title: "A Messy Person’s Takeaway on Home Organization"
date: 2021-06-20
description: ""
type: "post"
image: "images/post-1-messy_takeaway/post-1-1-cover.jpg"
categories:
  - "Life Hacks"
tags:
  - "Organization"
  - "Life Hacks"
---


You are not reading the title wrong; this is a reflection that I, as a messy
person, concluded based on my recent success story in tidying up my apartment
during pandemic.


For years, I hated cleaning and organizing. My experience taught me that no
matter how hard I try, the space will always end up messy in a few days. So
naturally, I avoided organizing unless I must. The avoidance strategy worked
until 2020 when local authority made stay-at-home order. We (my husband and I)
faced challenges in storing supplies and setting up workstations in a 1-bedroom
apartment. It took a while for me to realize staying at home for long periods of
time was becoming a new norm and a cluttered home added more stress. I decided
to make changes. I spent days learning and researching storage ideas and
products, and testing what worked for us. It has been several months since I
started the home organization project; our apartment is more organized and
spacious (we are expecting to adopt a puppy soon). I want to share with you my
reflections and I hope it will encourage you to give tidying up a try.

__Set Expectation__ Evaluate the amount of effort you want to put into tidying up
and your lifestyle. For me, a space is tidy when it is organized and
functional. To incorporate tidiness into my lifestyle, the effort of maintaining
tidy must be small.

__Understand tidying up is a process__ Organizing is personal and it takes
time. Make a list of the things that you want to tidy up in your current living
situation. It can be something big, like cleaning the closet. Or something
small, like sorting one drawer. When you have time, try to work through the list
one item at a time. When you complete a task, praise yourself! Remember, never
overwhelm, or exhaust yourself during the process. If you feel overwhelmed, try
a different day.

__Design the space by how often you use it__ Storing away household items that are
not frequently used. This is super important especially if you are living in
small space. Fewer items automatically make a space tidier. If you need ideas
about creating more storage in small space, check this article. Organize items
based on how frequent you use them. The most frequent used item should be the
easiest to access.

__Have magic boxes__ They are magic because any item you do not know how to deal
with, you can throw it in! After a while, you will realize most space is
organized, except a few boxes. Go through the boxes when you are ready and have
a smaller magic box handy. Whenever you face an item that you do not know how to
sort, place it in. Repeat this process. Ultimately, you should have a very small
box.

__Pause shopping for organization products until you have rough ideas about the
space and items need to be stored__ I know it is very tempting to shop for cute
organizers once you decide to organize. To increase your chance of purchasing
the right products, I recommend you start sorting and knowing the measurements
of the space first. I love shopping online for organization products as you can
easily read buyers’ reviews and get product measurements. When you can, invest
in quality. Also, try to upcycle. It is always great to repurpose the items you
already own. Be creative!

This is my very first blog post. I hope you enjoy the content. Any comments and
thoughts, feel free to share! I wish you best of luck!

![](/images/post-1-messy_takeaway/post-1-3-monica.gif)
